--------------------
Introduction
--------------------

This directory contains the source for the NIST EXPRESS Toolkit.  The
Toolkit was written by Don Libes, NIST.  The toolkit corresponds to
the EXPRESS DIS.

--------------------
How to Get the Latest Version of the Source or Documentation
--------------------

The source may be ftp'd as pub/step/npttools/exptk.tar.Z from
ftp.cme.nist.gov.  Request email delivery by mailing to
"nptserver@cme.nist.gov".  The contents of the message should be (no
subject line) "send pub/step/npttools/exptk.tar.Z".

The papers mentioned above can be retrieved separately as
pub/step/nptdocs/exptk-<file>.ps.Z where <file> is one of:

	intro
	requirements
	design-and-impl
	lessons-learned
	using-apps
	obtaining-installing
	programmer-ref
	creating-apps
	updating-apps

--------------------
Systems Supported
--------------------

The toolkit is written in ANSI C.

The toolkit can build using either Bison or Yacc and Flex or Lex.
This is configured by commenting (and uncommenting) the relevant lines
in mkrules.  Hopefully, these lines will be obvious when you look at
them.

I expect this should run on any UNIX, POSIX, or other system using a
compatibility package.  For instance, you can build this on a PC
running DOS using djgpp (GNU C on DOS).  (Ask your local archie server
where to get djgpp.)

--------------------
Installing the Toolkit
--------------------

Read the document "The NIST EXPRESS Toolkit: Obtaining and
Installing".  See "How to Get the ... Documentation" above.  This
document corresponds to the file "obtaining-installing".

--------------------
History
--------------------

This toolkit shares a great deal of inspiration from the N14-based
"Fed-X" toolkit which was written by by Steve Clark (NIST) with
contributions from Don Libes (NIST) and Dave Briggs (Boeing).

Read the document "The NIST EXPRESS Toolkit: Introduction and
Overview" for more historical information.  See "How to Get the ...
Documentation" above.  This document corresponds to the file "intro".


--------------------
Support
--------------------

The system is distributed in source form and you are encourage to
experiment with the toolkit, especially if you have problems with it.
While it is often quicker for you to have us diagnose your problems, it
is quicker for us to have you diagnose your own problems.  This
software is a prototype, intended to spur development of commercial
products.

Nonetheless, if you do have questions and/or problems, you may send
e-mail to "exptk@cme.nist.gov".  Please includes schemas, version
numbers, platform descriptions, and any other information that could
be relevant.

Standard NIST Disclaimer: This software was produced by the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), an agency of the U.S.
government, and by statute is not subject to copyright in the United
States.  Recipients of this software assume all responsibility
associated with its operation, modification, maintenance, and
subsequent redistribution.
