BRL-CAD Copying and Distribution
================================

BRL-CAD is open source software controlled and maintained by the
designated project developers and the US Army Research Laboratory.

BRL-CAD is made available under the terms of the GNU General Public
License (GPL) as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

BRL-CAD is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this file.  If you did not, please contact one of the
BRL-CAD project admins listed at http://sf.net/projects/brlcad/ or in
the AUTHORS file included as part of the distribution.

Overview
--------

BRL-CAD consists primarily of libraries, applications, scripts,
documentation, geometric models, images, and build infrastructure.
The BRL-CAD libraries include the headers in the include/ directory as
well as all of the directories that begin with the prefix "lib" in the
src/ directory (e.g. src/librt/).  All of BRL-CAD's libraries are
covered by the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL)
as published by the Free Software Foundation unless noted otherwise in
the source files.

Most of BRL-CAD's build infrastructure (i.e. files required by the GNU
Build System such as the configure.ac and all Makefile.am files), a
variety of scripts located in the misc/ and sh/ directories, and the
testing infrastructure (scripts and resources) are provided either
under the BSD license or are in the public domain.  Refer to each
individual file for specific terms.

BRL-CAD's documentation consists of manual pages located throughout
the package, most of the files in the doc/ directory, and the
top-level administrative project text files (e.g. README & AUTHORS).
Unless otherwise denoted, all of BRL-CAD's documentation is made
available under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL)
or, at your option, under the terms of the GNU General Public License
(GPL) as published by the Free Software Foundation.  Several older
documents (e.g. published by the U.S. Government prior to being
released as Open Source) are in the public domain.  Refer to each
document and the original author(s) individually for specific terms.

Unless previously described or otherwise already covered by another
license, the BRL-CAD package is covered under the terms of the GNU
General Public License (GPL) as published by the Free Software
Foundation.  This includes but is not limited to the applications,
geometric models, images, and other resource data included in the
BRL-CAD distribution.

The full text of the GPL, LGPL, GFDL, and BSD license should be
included in the source distribution of BRL-CAD in the doc/legal/
directory.  Refer to the full license text for more details,
information, and implications of each license.

3rd-Party Components
--------------------

The BRL-CAD package utilizes and redistributes copies of several 3rd
party source code, libraries, and/or applications.  Said 3rd party
source code, libraries, and/or applications all retain their
respective agreements, licenses, and copyrights and should be referred
to individually for their specific terms.  For purposes of
redistribution and legal compatibility, external component libraries
should not be under the terms of the GPL or any other license with
similar legal implications.

When referring to BRL-CAD, its source code, documentation, and/or
libraries, this is not meant to include or imply 3rd party source
code, libraries, and/or applications unless specifically stated
otherwise.  The majority of the 3rd party source code, libraries, and
applications included with BRL-CAD are located in the src/other/
directory of the source code distribution.

Copyright
---------

All contributions to BRL-CAD have been provided under agreement.  By
requiring all contributions be given back to the BRL-CAD developers,
this agreement allows the BRL-CAD project to continue to grow
unhindered.  As such, a majority of the source code is copyright by
the United States Government as represented by the United States Army
Research Laboratory.

Authors and other BRL-CAD contributors must comply with the copyright
terms for their respective contributions unless otherwise noted or
arranged.  The following notice should be prominent in the BRL-CAD
sources:

  Copyright (C) 2005 United States Government as represented by
  the U.S. Army Research Laboratory.  All Rights Reserved.

Trademark
---------

The word mark "BRL-CAD" and the "BRL-CAD Eagle" image are registered
trademarks of the Department of the Army, United States Government.
All rights are reserved.

---
$Revision$
