.\" Copyright (c) 1986, University of Utah
.TH GETAP 1 "Feb 3, 1987" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
getap \- get RLE images to an Apollo display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getap
[
.B \-b
] [
.B \-g
.I gamma
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-r
] [
.BI \-t " text"
] [
.B \-w
] [
.BI \-x " left"
] [
.BI \-y " top"
] [
.I file
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program displays an
.IR RLE (5)
file on an Apollo workstations running the Display Manager.
It uses a dithering technique to take a
full-color or gray scale image into the limited number of colors
typically available, unless "borrow mode" is specified.  Under
borrow mode, the 24 bit mode of the Apollo hardware is used (if it's
available).  On bitmap displays,
.IR getap
converts the image to black and white and uses bitmap dithering.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
This tells
.IR getap
to use "borrow mode" instead of an apollo window, if the hardware supports
it.  The only hardware that supports this are the DN550, DN560 and the
DN660.  The bottom portion of the image is chopped off on workstations without
square screens.
.TP
.B \-g gamma
This loads a color map with the specified gamma.
.TP
.B \-l
Loads a linear color map.
.TP
.B \-n
"No border" mode.  The Apollo window will have no border or annotation drawn.
.TP
.B \-r
On black and white displays, this flips the orientation of black and white.
.TP
.BI \-t " text"
Displays the
.I text
string at the bottom of the image.
.TP
.B \-w
Convert the image to grays before displaying.  On 4-bit displays, this
produces a significantly nicer looking image.
.TP
.BI \-x " left"
Specify position of the left edge of the window.
.TP
.BI \-y " top"
Specify position of the top edge of the window.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
John W. Peterson
.SH BUGS
.IR Getap
is pretty sloppy about dealing with the color map, particularly in window
mode.

Since Apollo workstations now support the X window system,
.I getap
is mostly subsumed by
.IR getx11 .

