.\" -*- Text -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, University of Michigan
.\" Template man page.  
.TH GETAMI 1 "February, 1992" 1
.UC 4 
.SH NAME
.HP
getami \- display an RLE image on a Commodore Amiga and optionally save it as an IFF ILBM file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getami 
[
.BI \-w " width"
] [
.BI \-h " height"
] [
.BI \-o " IFFfile"
] [
.B \-fdlb3H
] [
.I input_file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Getami 
displays an 
.IR RLE (5)
image on a Commodore Amiga. The program tries
to display the image in the best possible way, using HAM mode and
overscan when appropriate. Both NTSC and PAL Amigas are catered for.
In addition, the program allows you to save the displayed picture in
IFF format, using Christian Weber's 
.I iff.library.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-w " width"
Override the screen width computed by getami. Eg., use
.B -w 640 
if
.I getami
selects a screen resolution of 320x400
(because the picture will fit in it), but what you really
want is 640x400.
.TP
.BI -h " height"
Override the screen height computed by 
.IR getami .
.PP
Apart from the example mentioned above, these two options
are probably obsolete.
.TP
.BI -o " file"
Make
.I getami
act as an RLE->IFF converter: after rendering the
RLE file, 
.I getami
saves the image in IFF form in the file specified, then exits.
.TP
.B -f
Render the image flipped vertically. This option is necessary,
because
.I rleflip -v
often requires more memory than available on the amiga.
.TP
.B -d
This option causes
.I getami
to dump the color map it computes into file "cmap".
.TP
.B -l
This option causes
.I getami
to ignore the color map it computes, and to replace it with the color
map stored in file "cmap".
.PP
These two options must be used if you are using getami to
create IFF files to be used as frames for an ANIM file, as
all frames have to have the same color map.
.TP
.B -b
Render the image in black and white. This allows you to
display pictures at full resolution. (To display in color a
640x400 picture with more than 16 colors, you need to scale
it down to 320x400, not to mention the unavoidable blurriness
introduced by Hold And Modify.)
.TP
.B -3
Render the image in 4096 colors without using HAM. This is
achieved by rendering the image in three screens, one for each
of its r,g,b components, then flipping through them in rapid
succession. Because of this rapid flipping, the image 
flickers. This is especially noticeable in conjunction with
interlace. If you are sensitive to screen flicker, please do
not use this option.
.TP
.B -H
Force rendering of the image in HAM mode. Useful in rendering
animation frames, if getami happens to render some of the
frames in HAM mode and some in another mode.
.SH MENU OPERATIONS
You can select the following actions from the menu bar:
.TP
.B SAVE
Save the rendered picture in an IFF ILBM file. The picture will
be saved in a file with the extension ".ILBM". Eg., if you are
rendering a.rle, the picture will be saved in a.ILBM. If the
picture you are rendering comes from the standard input, you
will be asked to specify the name of the IFF file. This action
can also be invoked by pressing right Amiga-S.
.TP
.B SAVE AS
Same as SAVE, but you are always asked for the name of the
IFF file. To cancel the save, simply give a null file name.
This action can also be invoked by pressing right Amiga-A.
.PP
These two operations can only be invoked if you have Christian
Weber's 
.I iff.library
in your LIBS: directory. If you save a
picture which has been rendered with the -3 option, you will
actually create three files, with extensions ".r", ".g", and
".b", respectively. You can view this image using the 
.IR show3 (1)
program.
.TP
.B QUIT
Exit the program. This action can also be invoked by pressing
right Amiga-Q, or by clicking on the invisible gadget at the
top left corner.
.SH AUTHORS
Eleftherios Koutsofios (ek@ulysses.att.com) wrote the original version
of this program, including the HAM rendering algorithm.
.PP
Kriton Kyrimis (kyrimis%theseas@csi.forth.gr) added support for
intuition, overscan, saving files, the B&W and 4096 color display
modes, and all the minor items selectable through switches.
