.TH GETCX3D 1 "June 24, 1986" 1
.UC 4 
.SH NAME
getcx3d \- display an RLE(5) image on the Chromatics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getcx3d
[
.B \-O
] [
.B \-B
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-t
] [
.B "\-p x y"
] [
.B \-l
] [ 
.I infile
... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program displays an
.IR RLE (5)
image on a Chromatics CX 1536 (raster dimensions 1536\(mu1152\(mu24)
running CX3D.

.I Getcx3d
will display black and white and full color
images, ignoring the alpha channel if
present.  All three background styles of the
.IR RLE (5)
format are supported: (0) write every pixel,
(1) do not write background pixels (overlay) and (2) clear to background;
see the
.B \-O
and
.B \-B
options.
You may position an image at some place other than (0, 0)
on the screen; see the
.B \-p
option.
The
.B \-d
and
.B \-t
options magnify the image; see below.  The bounding box of the image
is the only part of the image that is ever displayed (i.e. clear to
background will only clear the area within the bounding box, not the
entire screen.)  The color maps within the CX are not changed.  Colors
are passed through a gamma correction map (gamma_value = 2.5 in
round(255 * ((x / 255) ^ (1 / gamma_value))), judged best for the
monitor connected to the CX) on the host before they are sent to the
CX.  Use
.B \-l
to pass colors through a linear map.  Finally, any color maps
specified by the RLE file are ignored.  This is a bug.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-O
Force overlay background style.  Ignoring the background style
indicated in the RLE file this option will overlay the RLE image,
causing the previous image on the CX to show through pixels of
background color of the present image.
.TP
.B \-B
Force clear to background style.  Ignoring the background style
indicated in the RLE file this option will clear the bounding box area
of the RLE file before displaying the image.
.TP
.B \-d
Double the image size.  Display four pixels for every one pixel of the
RLE file.
.TP
.B \-t
Triple the image size.  Display nine pixels for every one pixel of the
RLE file.
.TP
.BI \-p " x y"
Reposition the image.  Place the left corner of the image (0, 0) at
some place other than the left corner of the CX.  Note that the left
corner of the image is (0, 0), which may be different from the left
corner of the bounding box of the image.  The bounding box is the only
area of the image that is ever displayed.
.TP
.B \-l
Use a linear map.  By default all colors are passed through a gamma
correction map on
the host before they are sent to the CX.  This option causes no
mapping to take place.
.TP
.I infile
Name of file to display.  If not specified or if
.IR \- ,
an RLE encoded image is read from the standard input.

Any number of images may be displayed with one invocation of
.IR getcx3d .
.SH FILES
/dev/dr0
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
W. Thomas McCollough, Jr., University of Utah
.SH BUGS
Color maps are not loaded.

If interrupted with a catchable signal,
.I getcx3d
will close the CX gently, allowing future access without rebooting.
If
.I getcx3d
is stopped, however, and then (before it is continued) killed with any
signal, then the CX may be left in a bad state.
