.TH GETGMR 1 9/14/82 1
.UC 4 
.SH NAME
getgmr \- Restore an RLE image to a Grinnell GMR-27 frame buffer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getgmr
[
.B \-q
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-{BO}
] [
.B \-{pP}
.I x y
] [
.B \-c
.I channel
[
.I into
] ] [ 
.I infile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Displays an
.IR RLE (5)
file on a Grinnell GMR-27 frame buffer.
.TP
.B \-q
Query the given file.  Determine if it is an
.IR RLE (5)
file.  Does not affect the frame buffer.
.TP
.B \-D
Debug the given file.  Print information about each command in the input
file.  Displays as it prints.
.TP
.B \-B
If the file was saved with \fB\-B\fP or \fB\-O\fP, restore the
background color before restoring the image data.
.TP
.B \-O
If the file was saved with \fB\-B\fP or \fB\-O\fP, restore the image
data in overlay mode. Only areas of the original image which were not
the background color are restored.  The rest of the image already in
the frame buffer is undisturbed.
.TP
.BI \-p \ x\ y
Reposition the image.  The original lower left corner is positioned at [x, y]
before restoring the image.  A warning:  A saved image should not be
repositioned so that any saved data wraps around the X borders.  If the file
was not saved with \fB\-B\fP or \fB\-O\fP, this includes background areas.
.TP
.BI \-P \ x\  y
Reposition the image incrementally, that is, \fIx\fP and \fIy\fP are
taken as offsets from the original position of the image.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIchannel\fP [ \fIinto\fP ]
Put only the given color
.I channel
into the frame buffer.  If
.I into
is specified, loads it into that channel.
If the input file is black and
white (one channel), then
.B \-c
.I channel
is equivalent to
.B \-c
.I 0 channel.
.TP
.B infile
Name of file to display.  If not specified, input is read from stdin.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Spencer W. Thomas, 
Todd Fuqua
.SH BUGS
Seems to interact poorly with Grinnell hardware bugs at times.
