.\" Copyright (c) 1986, University of Utah
.TH GETMEX 1 "Jan 20, 1987" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
getmex \- get RLE images to an Iris display under the window manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getmex
[
.B \-f
] [
.B \-w
] [
.B \-D
] [
.B \-m
.I mapstart
] [
.I infile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program displays an
.IR RLE (5)
file on a
.I Silicon Graphics Iris
display running the
.IR mex
or
.I 4Sight
window manager.  It uses a dithering technique to take a
full-color or gray scale image into the limited number of colors
typically available under
.IR mex .
Its default behavior is to try to
display the image in color, an option is provided to force black and
white display.  Several
.I getmex
processes running simultaneously will share color map entries.

.I getmex
uses the standard
window creation procedure to create a window with a location and size
specified by the user, with the restriction that the window will be no larger
than the input image.  If the window is smaller than the image, the center of
the image will be visible in the window.

You can "pan" a small window around in an image by attaching the mouse to
the window using
.IR mex
or
.I 4Sight
and clicking the
.I left mouse button
in the image.  The position in the image
under the cursor will jump to the center of the window.  The
.I SETUP
key resets the view to position the center of the image in the center of the
window.  Furthermore,
.I control-SETUP
saves the current view, and
.I shift-SETUP
restores it.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
Normally,
.I getmex
will fork itself after putting the image on the screen, so that the
parent process may return the shell, leaving an "invisible" child to
keep the image refreshed.  If
.B \-f
is specified, getmex will remain attached to the shell, whence it may
be killed with an interrupt signal or via
the window manager.
.TP
.B \-w
This flag forces
.I getmex
to produce a gray scale dithered image instead of a color image.
Color input will be transformed to black and white via the
.I NTSC Y
transform.  Since a 128-step greyscale is used, this will produce a
much smoother looking image than color dithering.
.TP
.B \-D
"Debug mode".  The operations in the input
.IR RLE (5)
file will be printed as they are read.
.TP
.BI \-m " mapstart"
Specifies the starting location of the block of color map to be used by
.I getmex .
(There are 1024 colors available on the Iris 2400/3000s under
.IR mex .)
The default for color images is a block of 512 rgb colors starting at
location 512 in the color map.  Black-and-white images default to a block
of 128 grey shades starting at location 128.  Both the rgb and grey ramps
are gamma-corrected in the same way as the
.I makemap
program in the /usr/gifts/mextools/tools directory.  You probably want
to set up your initial color map using
.I makemap .
.TP
.I infile
Name of the
.IR RLE (5)
file to display.  If not specified, the image will be read from the
standard input.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR get4d (1),
.IR getiris (1),
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Russ Fish, University of Utah.
