.\" Copyright (c) 1986, University of Utah
.TH GETREN 1 "Nov 1, 1987" 1
.UC 4 
.SH NAME
getren \- get RLE images to an HP98721 ("Renaissance") display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getren
[
.B \-p 
.I xpos ypos
] [
.B \-O
] [
.B \-P
.I xoff yoff
] [
.B \-d
.I display
] [
.B \-x
.I driver
] [ 
.I infile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program displays an
.IR RLE (5)
file on an HP 98721 "Renaissance" display configured with at
least 24 bits per pixel.  If a color map exists in the file,
it is loaded into the display, otherwise a linear map is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-p " xpos ypos"
position the image at 
.I xpos, ypos.
.TP
.BI \-P " xoff yoff"
Offset the image position by
.I xoff yoff
.TP
.B \-O
Don't clear the screen (overlay mode)
.TP
.BI \-d " display"
Gives the name of the display device to which the image is to be
displayed.  The default is "/dev/hp98721".
.TP
.BI \-x " driver"
Gives the name of the device driver to be used to communicate with
the display device.  The default is "hp98721".
.TP
.I infile
The input will be read from this file.  If
.I infile
is "\-" or is not specified, the input will be read from the standard
input stream.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR read98721 (1),
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
John W. Peterson, University of Utah, with input from Filippo Tampieri of
Cornell and Eric Haines of 3D/Eye.
.SH BUGS
The program assumes a full 24 bit Renaissance display.  The HP graphics
library supports automatically dithering for displays with fewer bitplanes,
but getren ignores this.
.br
The device and driver names are compiled in as "/dev/hp98721" and "hp98721",
respectively.  This may need changing on systems configured differently
(in particular, systems with the Renaissance as their sole display
may use a different name for the device).
