.\" Copyright (c) 1990, Southwest Research Institute
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by Southwest Research Institute.  The name of Southwest Research
.\" Institute may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.TH GETTAAC 1 "July 5, 1990" 1
.SH NAME
gettaac \- display an RLE image on a Sun TAAC-1.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gettaac

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program displays an
.IR RLE (5)
file on a
.I Sun TAAC-1
that is running in single monitor mode under Sunview.
It uses the full 24 bits of color available on the TAAC.
The RLE file is either read from the standard input or
from the file name entered in the control panel.  If the
file name is entered from the control panel,
.IR csh (1)
style tilde expansion and
file name completion are supported.  The control
panel allows the gamma to be set and the file to be
loaded as either a gray scale or rgb image.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Keith S. Pickens, Southwest Research Institute.


