.\" Copyright (c) 1986, University of Utah
.TH GETX10 1 "Jan 20, 1987" 1
.UC 4 
.SH NAME
getx10 \- get RLE images to an X display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getx10
[
.B \-{bB}
] [
.B \-{cwW}
] [
.B \-D
] [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-m
] [
.B \-p
] [
.B \-z
] [
.B \-=
.I window_geometry
] [
.B \-d
.I display
] [
.B \-{iI}
.I image_gamma
] [
.B \-g
.I display_gamma
] [
.B \-l 
.I levels
] [ 
.I infile
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program displays an
.IR RLE (5)
file on an 
.I X Version 10
display.  It uses a dithering technique to take a
full-color or gray scale image into the limited number of colors
typically available under
.IR X .
Its default behavior is to try to
display the image in color with as many brightness levels as possible
(except on a one bit deep display), options are provided to limit the
number of levels or to force black and white display.  Several
.I getx10
processes running simultaneously with the same color resolution will
share color map entries.

Other options allow control over the gamma, or contrast, of the image.
The dithering process assumes that the incoming image has a gamma of
1.0 (i.e., a 200 in the input represents an intensity twice that of
a 100.)  If this is not the case, the input values must be adjusted
before dithering via the
.B \-i
or 
.B \-I
option.  The input file may also specify the gamma of the image via a
picture comment (see below).  The output display is assumed to have a gamma of
2.5 (standard for color TV monitors).  This may be modified via the
.B \-g
option if a display with a different gamma is used.

.I Getx10
uses the standard 
.I X
window creation procedure to create a window with a location and size
specified by the user, with the restriction that the window must be at
least as large as the input image.  If the window is turned into an
icon, a smaller version of the image will be displayed in the icon.  A
shifted mouse click on either the window or icon will cause the image
to be removed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
After displaying the image in a window, 
.I getx10
will attempt to set your "root" window background tiling pattern to
the image.  There are some strict limitations on image size for this
to work (at least in X10).  A color or gray-scale image must be
smaller than 256x256, and a black and white 
.RB ( \-W )
image smaller than
about 720x720.  If the image is larger than this, a strip from the top
of the image will be displayed in the background.  Note that if you
kill the 
.I getx10
window, the color map entries will not be protected; any other program
that asks for a color map entry will likely get one that is being used
by the background image.
.TP
.B \-B
Loads the image into the background as above, but does not display it
in a window.
.I Getx10
exits after loading the background, leaving the color map unprotected,
as above.
.TP
.B \-c
This flag suppresses all dithering, and causes
.I getx10
to load the color map in the image file directly into the display.
Channel 0 of the image will be treated as a set of indices into the
color map.  If there are not enough color map entries available in the
display, as many as fit will be loaded and all other "colors" will be
mapped to black.  The picture comment 
.BI color_map_length= maplen
can be used to specify the exact number of relevant color map entries.
.TP
.B \-D
"Debug mode".  The operations in the input
.IR RLE (5)
file will be printed as they are read.
.TP
.B \-f
Normally,
.I getx10
will fork itself after putting the image on the screen, so that the
parent process may return the shell, leaving an "invisible" child to
keep the image refreshed.  If 
.B \-f
is specified, 
.I getx10
will not exit to the shell until the image is removed.
.TP
.B \-m
Just loads the color map.  This may be suitable for fixing up the
color map used by the root background.
.TP
.B \-p
.I Getx10
tries to copy the image to an off-screen pixmap for quick refresh.  On
some displays, this will fail if no off-screen memory is available.
The image will disappear shortly after it is completed when this
happens.  You should specify 
.I \-p
to prevent the attempt to use a pixmap.
.TP
.B \-w
This flag forces
.I getx10
to produce a gray scale dithered image instead of a color image.
Color input will be transformed to black and white via the
.I NTSC Y
transform.  On a low color resolution display (a display with only 4
bits, for example), this will produce a much smoother looking image
than color dithering.  It may be used in conjunction with
.B \-l
to produce an image with a specified number of gray levels.
.TP
.B \-W
This flag forces
.I getx10
to display the image as a black and white bitmap image.  This is the
only mode available on monochrome (non gray scale) displays (and is
the default there).  Black pixels will be displayed with pixel value 0
and white with pixel value 1 (note that these may not be black and
white on certain displays, or if they have been modified with 
.IR xset .)
.TP
.B \-z
This flag creates a zoom window for the image.  The new window is created by 
the standard 
.I X
window creation process.  The mouse can be used in the image window to select
the area to zoom.  Pressing any button will reset the center of the zoom
window to be the selected pixel.  A clickdrag in the image window will resize
the zoom window to enclose the selected region.  Pressing the left button in
the zoom window will decrease the zoom factor, but will keep the same number 
of pixels zoomed.  The right button increases the zoom factor.  If the middle
button is pressed in the zoom window, position information will be printed
for the selected zoom pixel.  Note that the info will be printed only if
.B \-f
is given with the
.B \-z
option.  One may also resize the zoom window to change the number of pixels
that are zoomed.
.TP
.BI \-d " display"
Give the name of the 
.I X
display to display the image on.  Defaults to the value of the
environment variable
.IR DISPLAY .
.TP
.BI \-= " window_geometry"
Specify the geometry of the window in which the image will be
displayed.  This is useful mostly for giving the location of the
window, as the size of the window will be at least as large as the
size of the image.  The
.I window_geometry
specification need not begin with an "=" sign.
.TP
.BI \-i " image_gamma"
Specify the gamma (contrast) of the image.  A low contrast image,
suited for direct display without compensation on a high contrast
monitor (as most monitors are) will have a gamma of less than one.
The default image gamma is 1.0.  Image gamma may also be specified by
a picture comment in the
.I RLE (5)
file of the form
.BI image_gamma= gamma.
The command line argument will override the value in the file if specified.
.TP
.BI \-I " image_gamma"
An alternate method of specifying the image gamma, the number
following
.B \-I
is the gamma of the display for which the image was originally
computed (and is therefore 1.0 divided by the actual gamma of the
image).  Image display gamma may also be specified by
a picture comment in the
.I RLE (5)
file of the form
.BI display_gamma= gamma.
The command line argument will override the value in the file if specified.
.TP
.BI \-g " display_gamma"
Specify the gamma of the 
.I X
display monitor.  The default value is 2.5, suitable for most color TV
monitors (this is the gamma value assumed by the NTSC video standard).
.TP
.BI \-l " levels"
Specify the number of gray or color levels to be used in the dithering
process.  If not this many levels are available,
.I getx10
will try successively fewer levels until it is able to allocate enough
color map entries.
.TP
.I infile
Name of the
.IR RLE (5)
file to display.  If not specified, the image will be read from the
standard input.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Spencer W. Thomas, University of Utah
.SH BUGS
It gets an X error when displaying an image only one line high.
.SH DEFICIENCIES
It totally ignores the 
.I .Xdefaults 
file.

