.\" Copyright (c), Program of Computer Graphics, Cornell University.
.TH READ98721 1 "Jun 11, 1987" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
read98721 \- read an image from the HP\-98721 frame buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B read98721
[
.B \-b
.I "red green blue"
] [
.B \-d
.I display
] [
.B \-m
] [
.B \-o
.I outfile
] [
.B \-p
.I "xpos ypos"
] [
.B \-s
.I "xsize ysize"
] [
.B \-x
.I driver
] [
.B \-O
] [
.I comments
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program reads an image from a
.I "HP\-98721"
frame buffer and writes it to an
.IR RLE (5)
file. The file will contain three channels of 8 bits each for red, green,
and blue respectively. If an output file name is not specified the image
will be written to the standard output.  The default display device
and device driver are respectively
.I /dev/crt98721
and
.I hp98721.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-b " red green blue"
Specifies red, green and blue pixel values for the background.
.TP
.BI \-d " display"
Gives the name of the display device from which the image is to be read.
.TP
.BI \-m
Saves the device color maps. By default, no color maps are saved.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
Writes the image to
.IR outfile.
.TP
.BI \-p " xpos ypos"
Specifies the lower left corner of the portion of the screen to be
saved. The origin is the lower left corner of the display, which is
taken as the default starting position if this option is not specified.
.TP
.BI \-s " xsize ysize"
Specifies the size of the image to be read.
.TP
.BI \-x " driver"
Gives the name of the device driver to be used to communicate with
the display device.
.TP
.BI \-O
Specifies that the image has no background.
.LP
The remaining arguments are taken to be comment strings of the form
.IR name=value
, and are inserted in the header of the
.IR RLE (5)
output file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR getren (1),
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Filippo Tampieri, Program of Computer Graphics, Cornell University.


