.\" Copyright (c) 1990, Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc.
.TH RLATORLE 1 "May 30, 1990" 1
.SH NAME
rlatorle \- convert a Wavefront "rla" or "rlb" image file into an
RLE image file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rlatorle
[
.B \-b
] [
.B \-h
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-m
] [
.BI \-o " outfile"
] [
.I infile.rla
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program converts Wavefront image files (rla or rlb formats) into Utah
.IR RLE (5)
image files.  Wavefront image files store RGB data as well as a matte channel.
They also define a "bounding box" containing non-background pixels which is in
many cases smaller than the total image area.  Only this non-background area is
run length encoded.  When converting to an RLE file, the matte channel is
stored as an alpha channel and the "bounding box" dimensions are ignored.  It
is for this reason that in general the RLE version of the file will be larger
than its Wavefront counterpart.
.PP
The RLE file will contain a "true color" image
(24 bits).  These RLE files may then be viewed using any RLE image viewer.  When
they are displayed on an 8 bit display, the image will be dithered.  In order
to produce a better looking image (on 8 bit displays), it is recommended that
the image be quantizing (to 8 bit mapped color) prior to its display.  This may
be done by piping the output of this program into the Utah
.IR mcut (1)
or
.IR rlequant (1)
utilities.
An example of this is shown later.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
This option will cause rlatorle to convert from a Wavefront "rlb" image
rather than use the default "rla" conversion.
.TP
.B \-v
This option will cause rlatorle to operate in verbose mode.  The header
information is written to "stderr".
.TP
.B \-h
This option allows the header of the wavefront image to be dumped to "stderr"
without converting the file.  It is equivalent to using the \-v option except
that no file conversion takes place.
.TP
.B \-m
This option will cause rlatorle to ignore the RGB data and use the matte
channel information to produce a monochrome image.  The resulting RLE image
file will contain only one color channel instead of the usual four
(RGB + alpha).
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
If specified, the output will be written to this file.  If
.I outfile
is "\-", or if it is not specified, the output will be written to the
standard output stream.
.TP
.I infile.rla
The name of the Wavefront image data file to be converted.  It is not necessary
to supply the ".rla" or ".rlb" extension as it will be added to the supplied
name if not already there.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
rlatorle \-v test.0001.rla \-o test.rle
While running in verbose mode, convert test.0001.rla to RLE format and store
resulting data in test.rle.
.TP
rlatorle test.0001.rla | mcut >test.rle
Convert test.0001.rla to RLE format and convert to 8 bit mapped color before
storing data in test.rle
.TP
rlatorle \-h test.0001.rla
Dump the header information of the Wavefront file called test.0001.rla.
.TP
rlatorle -b test.0001 | get4d
Convert test.0001.rlb to RLE format and display the resulting image.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR mcut (1),
.IR rlequant (1),
.IR rletorla (1),
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
.br
Wesley C. Barris
.br
Army High Performance Computing Research Center (AHPCRC)
.br
Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc.
