.\" -*- Text -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, University of Michigan
.TH RLECCUBE 1 "January 30, 1991" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rleccube \- Make a picture of a color cube.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rleccube
[
.B \-w
.I squares-wide
] [
.B \-o
.I outfile
] [
.I cube-side
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program computes an \fIRLE\fP(5) image of slices through the RGB
color cube.  The arguments control the size of the cube and the
arrangement of the slices into an image.  Slices are taken in planes
of constant red, with green varying along the "x" axis and blue along
the "y" axis within a slice.  The slice for red=0 is placed in the
lower left corner of the image; red increases along the bottom row,
then to the left of the next row, and so on.  The \fIrleswap\fP(1)
program can be used to get an image with slices of constant green or
blue.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-w " squares-wide"
The number of slices in a row will be \fIsquares-wide\fP.  The default
is the smallest divisor of \fIcube-side\fP larger than
\fIsqrt(cube-side)\fP.  If \fIsquares-wide\fP is not an exact divisor
of \fIcube-side\fP, the top row will be filled in with slices starting
from red near 0.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
If specified, the output will be written to this file.  If
.I outfile
is "\-", or if it is not specified, the output will be written to the
standard output stream.
.TP
.I cube-side
The number of samples on each side of the cube.  Each slice will be
\fIcube-side\fPx\fIcube-side\fP, and there will be \fIcube-side\fP
slices.  The default value is 64.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR rleswap (1),
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Spencer W. Thomas
.SH BUGS
It really should fill in the excess space in the last row with black.
