.\" Copyright (c) 1986, University of Utah
.TH RLECLOCK 1 "Dec 11, 1987" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rleClock \- Generate a clock face in RLE format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rleClock
[
.I options
] [
.B \-o
.I outfile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program generates an analog clock face in
.IR RLE (5)
file format and writes it to
.I outfile
or standard output.
The picture is a standard clock face with optional digital representation
above.
The user has control over the colors of the portions of the clock face, the
text, and the text background.
The user also has control over the clock configuration: number of ticks, scale
of the big and little hands, the values of the big and little hands, and the
format used to generate the digital portion.
.PP
By default,
.B rleClock
generates a standard analog clock face displaying the current time and
with no digital portion.
This default face is transparent, that is, the alpha channel is only defined
for the clock outline, tick marks, and the hands.
.PP
On those options that expect colors, three numbers must be given after the
option switch.
These are values for red, green, and blue on a scale of zero through 255.
Those color options that are capitalized indicate the colors for the filled
regions (optional for the clock face and text but default for the hands).
Those that are not capitalized are for lines that either outline or constitute
the feature (the clock face is default, but they're optional for the hands).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-help
Prints a synopsis of the options.
.PP
The options that control the value displayed by the clock are
.TP
.BI \-ls " FLOAT"
This specifies the full scale (360 degrees) of the little hand.
Default is 12.
.TP
.BI \-lv " FLOAT"
This specifies the value of the little hand, expressed in units of the little hand
full scale.
Default is the current hour time on a 12-hour scale.
.TP
.BI \-bs " FLOAT"
This specifies the full scale (360 degrees) of the big hand.
Default is 60.
.TP
.BI \-bv " FLOAT"
This specifies the value of the big hand, expressed in units of the big hand
full scale.
Default is the current minute time.
.LP
The following options manage the display configuration of the clock:
.TP
.BI \-x " INT"
The INT specifies the width of the clock in pixels.
Default is 128.
.TP
.BI \-cy " INT"
The INT specifies the height of the clock face (minus text portion) in pixels.
The default is 128.
.TP
.BI \-ty " INT"
The INT specifies the height in pixels of the text portion of the display.
If it is zero (the default), no text portion is displayed.
.TP
.BI \-t " INT"
This specifies the number of tick marks to place around the clock.
The default is 12.
.TP
.BI \-lw " INT"
This specifies the line width in pixels of the clock face, the tick marks, the
optional hand borders, and the text.
The default is one, but two or three give better looking clocks.
.TP
.BI \-tf " STR"
The string describes how to show the digital portion of the clock.
The rules for forming STR are the same as for
.I printf
format strings, that is, a percent sign, optionally followed by field width
values, followed by a key letter.
In this case, the key letter may be
.B "b, l, B,"
or
.B L.
Lower case
.B b
means to insert the integer value of the big hand and upper case
.B B
means to insert the floating point value of the big hand.
Lower case
.B l
means to insert the integer value of the little hand and upper case
.B L
means to insert the floating point value of the little hand.
.TP
.BI \-fc " R G B"
This specifies the color in red, green, and blue, of the clock face.
.TP
.BI \-Fc " R G B"
This specifies the color to fill in inside the clock face, under the hands.  If
this option is not supplied, the clock is generated with no inside-face
background (by use of the alpha channel).
.TP
.BI \-Hc " R G B"
This specifies the color to draw in the hands with.
.TP
.BI \-hc " R G B"
This specifies the color to draw the outlines of the hands.
If it is not given, no outlines are drawn on the edges of the hands.
.TP
.BI \-tc " R G B"
This specifies the color of the text above the clock.
It only has effect if a text height (-ty) is supplied.
.TP
.BI \-Tc " R G B"
This specifies the color of a background field to place behind the text.
If omitted, no background (zero alpha channel) is drawn.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B "rleClock"
Generates a transparent clock face showing the current time and no digital
representation.
.TP
.B "rleClock \-ty 32"
Generates a current-time clock with digital representation above.
.TP
.B
rleClock \-Fc 255 0 0 \-Hc 0 0 255 \-lw 3 \-ty 96 \-tc 0 255 0 \-Tc 128 128 128
Generates a clock with a red inside, white face, blue hands, wide lines, tall
text field, green test, and grey text background.
.TP
.B
rleClock \-ty 32 \-bs 10 \-bv 4.51 \-ls 100 \-lv 45.1 \-tf "%2l.%2.2B"
Generates a clock with the scale of the big hand set to 10 and it's value at
4.51, the scale and value of the little hand as 100 and 45.1, and the format
for the digital portion formatted as
.B "%2d.%2.2f"
to print the integer little hand value (two spaces) and the floating point big
hand value.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Robert L. Brown, RIACS, NASA Ames Research Center
.SH BUGS
Not thoroughly checked when the line width is cranked up.
May dump core.

