.\" Copyright (c) 1986, University of Utah
.TH RLECOMP 1 "December 20, 1986" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rlecomp \- Digital image compositor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rlecomp
[
.B \-o
.I outfile
]
.I Afile operator Bfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR rlecomp
implements an image compositor based on presence of an alpha, or matte channel
the image.  This extra channel usually defines
a mask which represents a sort of a cookie-cutter for the image.  This is the
case when alpha is 255 (full coverage) for pixels inside the shape, zero
outside, and between zero and 255 on the boundary.
If \fIAfile\fP or \fIBfile\fP is just a single \-, then
.IR rlecomp
reads that file from the standard input.

The operations behave as follows (assuming the operation is
"\fIA operator B\fP"):
.TP
.B over
The result will be the union of the two
image shapes, with \fIA\fP obscuring \fIB\fP in the region of overlap.
.TP
.B in
The result is simply the image \fIA\fP cut by the shape of \fIB\fP.
None of the image data of \fIB\fP will be in the result.
.TP
.B atop
The result is the same shape as image \fIB\fP, with \fIA\fP obscuring
\fIB\fP where the image shapes overlap.  Note this differs from
.B over
because the portion of \fIA\fP outside \fIB\fP's shape does not appear
in the result.
.TP
.B out
The result image is image \fIA\fP with the shape of \fIB\fP cut out.
.TP
.B xor
The result is the image data from both images that is
outside the overlap region.  The overlap region will be blank.
.TP
.B plus
The result is just the sum of the image data.  Output values are
clipped to 255 (no overflow).  This
operation is actually independent of the alpha channels.
.TP
.B minus
The result of \fIA\fP \- \fIB\fP, with underflow clipped to zero.  The
alpha channel is ignored (set to 255, full coverage).
.TP
.B diff
The result of abs(\fIA\fP \- \fIB\fP).
This is useful for comparing two very similar images.
.TP
.B add
The result of \fIA\fP + \fIB\fP, with overflow wrapping
around (\fImod\fP 256).
.TP
.B subtract
The result of \fIA\fP - \fIB\fP, with underflow wrapping around
(\fImod\fP 256).  The \fBadd\fP and \fBsubtract\fP operators can be
used to perform reversible transformations.
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5),
.br
"Compositing Digital Images", Porter and Duff,
.I "Proceedings of SIGGRAPH '84"
p.255
.SH AUTHORS
Rod Bogart and John W. Peterson
.SH BUGS
The other operations could be optimized as much as
.B over
is.

.I Rlecomp
assumes both input files have the same number of channels.
