.\" -*- Text -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, University of Michigan
.TH RLECAT 1 "November 12, 1990" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rlecat \- concatenate and repeat images.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rlecat
[
.B \-c
] [
.B \-n
.I repeat-count
] [
.B \-o
.I outfile
] [
.I files ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program will concatenate all the input
.IR RLE (5)
images, adding titles, and
optionally repeating the images a specified number of times.
For each input file, it copies all images to the output file.  If an
image does not have a
.I title
or
.I TITLE
comment, and the input is not coming from the standard input, then the
file name (and an image number, if it is not the first image in the
file) is added as a
.I TITLE
comment.  If the input file were named 'images.rle', the first image
would be given a comment
.IR TITLE=images.rle ,
the second would get a comment
.IR TITLE=images.rle(2) ,
and so on.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
With
.BR \-n ,
specifies that the output images should be "collated".  In other
words, the repeat sequence will be 1 2 3 ... 1 2 3 ... instead of the
default of 1 1 ... 2 2 ... 3 3 ...
.TP
.BI \-n " repeat-count"
Specifies that each input image should be repeated
.I repeat-count
times.  The "repeat unit" (if
.B \-c
is specified, this is the entire concatenated sequence of input
images, otherwise it is just each image, separately) is written to a
temporary file, and then copied to the output the requisite number of
times.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
If specified, the output will be written to this file.  If
.I outfile
is "\-", or if it is not specified, the output will be written to the
standard output stream.
.TP
.I files
The input will be read from these files.  If
a file name
is "\-", or none are specified, the input will be read from the standard
input stream.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
rlebg 128 128 128 | rlecat -n 25
Generates 25 copies of a gray background; useful for using
.IR rlecomp (1)
to put background on an animation sequence (with 25 or fewer frames).
.TP
rlecat *.rle | <some processing> | getx11
Adds
.I TITLE
comments so the individual images are correctly identified by
.IR getx11 (1).
.TP
rlecat -c -r 3 anim*.rle
Generates an animation with 3 repeats of the action.
.TP
rlecat -r 3 anim*.rle
Generates a "triple-framed" animation \- each frame is repeated 3
times.
.SH FILES
/tmp/rlecatXXXXXXXX
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR rleaddcom (1),
.IR rlehdr (1),
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Spencer W. Thomas, University of Michigan
.SH BUGS
If the /tmp directory is not writable, or if there is not sufficient
space on /tmp to hold a repeat unit, the program will not work
correctly.
