.\" Copyright (c) 1986, University of Utah
.\" Template man page.  Taken from wtm's page for getcx3d
.TH RLEDITHER 1 "Month DD, YYYY" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rledither \- Floyd Steinberg dither an image to the given colors.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rledither
.\" sample options, they should be alphabetized...
[
.B \-e
.I edge_factor
]
[
.B \-l
.I "nchan length"
]
.B \-{tf}
.I mapfile
[
.B \-o
.I outfile
] [
.I infile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program accepts an
.IR RLE (5)
file and a file of colormap entries, and dithers the image to those colors.
Edge enhancement is also performed, if specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-e " edge_factor"
An
.I edge_factor
of zero means no edge enhancement (the default).  A value of 1.0 looks pretty
good for most images.
.TP
.BI \-l " nchan length"
Specifies the number of channels in the colormap, and the number of entries
in each channel.  The default is 3 channels of 256 entries, which is
appropriate for an eight bit color display.
.TP
.BI \-{tf} " mapfile"
The
.I mapfile
must contain at least
.I "nchan*length"
values in the range 0 to 255.  The \fB\-t\fR flag causes
.I mapfile
to be read as R G B R G B R G B...  The \fB-f\fR flag implies the entries are
listed as R R R... G G G... B B B...
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
If specified, the output will be written to this file.  If
.I outfile
is "\-", or if it is not specified, the output will be written to the
standard output stream.
.TP
.I infile
The input will be read from this file.  If
.I infile
is "\-" or is not specified, the input will be read from the standard
input stream.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR mcut (1),
.IR rlehdr (1),
.IR rlequant (1),
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Rod G. Bogart, University of Michigan
.SH BUGS
It should read colormaps from RLE files, too.  For the moment, edit
the output from
.IR "rlehdr -m".
