.\" Copyright (c) 1986, University of Utah
.TH RLEHDR 1 "Jan 22, 1987" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rlehdr \- Prints the header of an RLE file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rlehdr
[
.B \-b
] [
.BI \-c comment-names
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-m
] [
.B \-v
] [
.I files ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program prints the header of
.IR RLE (5)
files in a human readable form.  If the optional
.I files
argument is not supplied, input is read from standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Print the information in a "brief" one-line form.  The form of the
output line is
.br
\fIname\fR: [\fIl\fR,\fIb\fR]+[\fIxs\fR,\fIys\fR]x\fInc\fR+A,
BG=\fIcolor\fR, map=\fIN\fRx\fIL\fR, (C)
.br
Where [\fIl\fR,\fIb\fR] is the position of the lower-left corner of
the image, [\fIxs\fR,\fIys\fR] is the size of the image in pixels,
\fInc\fR is the number of channels saved, +A is present if an alpha
channel is saved.  BG= or OV= indicate that a background color was
saved; OV= means that the existing background is not cleared to the
background color before the image is read (this was used for a
cheap form of compositing, but is basically obsolete now).
\fIcolor\fR is the saved background color.  The map= entry will be
present only if a color map was saved; \fIN\fR is the number of
channels in the color map and \fIL\fR is the length of the map.
Finally (C) is appended if there are comments present.
.TP
.BI \-c " comment-names"
If a comment identified by any of the words in the comma-separated
list
.I comment-names
is present in the input file, its first line will be printed.  Each
name is tried, in turn, and only the first match is printed.  If no
match is found, but comments are present, (C) will be printed.  The
.B \-c
flag implies
.BR \-b .
.TP
.B \-d
Dump a very verbose version of the image contents as text to the
standard error output stream.
.TP
.B \-m
Print out the color map information.
.B \-v
Prints the raster toolkit version and patch level.  No input files
will be processed if this option is given.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
rlehdr image.rle
Print the header information for all images in the file image.rle.
.TP
rlehdr -m image.rle
Also print the color map contents, if one is present.
.TP
rlehdr -b *.rle
Print one line summaries of all the images in the directory.
.TP
rlehdr -c title,TITLE *.rle
Print one line summaries of all the images, and print the title of any
that have a title comment.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Spencer W. Thomas, University of Utah
