.TH RLEINTRP 1 "July 1991" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rleintrp \- Interpolate between 2 RLE images .
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rleintrp
[
.B \-o
.I prefixe-out
] [
.B \-1
.I file1
] [
.B \-2
.I file2
] [
.B \-n
.I nbimages
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program create nbimages files of RLE images resulting of linear interpolati
.IR RLE (5)
images must have the same caracteristics (Number of colors, channel alpha, backg
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-o \ prefixe-out
specify the prefix of the names of output files. The names are composed of this
.IR file1
(or of
.IR file2)
is used as prefix. If a name cannot be create by the above methods it is arbitra
.TP
.BI \-1 \ file1
Specify the name of the file containing the initial image for interpolate. If op
.IR -2
exist we interpolate between a black image and the existing file ('fondu au noir
.IR file1
is '-' standard input is used.
.TP
.BI \-2 \ file2
Specify the name of the file containing the initial image for interpolate. If op
.IR -1
exist we interpolate between a black image and the existing file ('fondu au noir
.IR file2
is '-' standard input is used.
.TP
.BI \-n \ nbimages
Specify The number of images to create. By default nbimages = 1. The value is li
.LP
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
'Fondu au noir' of image1 on 5 images named fondu_XXX.rle.
rleintrp \-1 image1 \-o fondu.rle \-n 5
.TP
Interpolate 1 image between image1 and image2.
rleintrp \-1 image1 \-2 image2
.TP
Interpolate 3 images with names of files inter_XXX.rle :
rleintrp \-1 image1 \-2 image2 -o inter.rle \-n 3
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Michel Gaudet SLX Onera
CHATILLON
(France)
