.\" Copyright (c) 1986, University of Utah
.TH RLEPATCH 1 "Nov 8, 1987" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rlepatch \- patch smaller RLE files over a larger image.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rlepatch
[
.B \-o
.I outfile
]
.I infile patchfiles...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rlepatch
puts smaller RLE files on top of a larger RLE image.  One use
for rlepatch is to place small "fix" images on top of a larger image that
took a long time to compute.  Along with
.IR repos (1),
.I rlepatch
can also be used as a simple way to build image mosaics.

Unlike
.IR rlecomp (1),
.I rlepatch
does not perform any arithmetic on the pixels.
If the patch images overlap, the patches specified last cover those
specified first.

If the input files each contain multiple images, they are treated as
streams of images merging to form a stream of output images.  I.e.,
the
.IR n th
image in each input file becomes part of the
.IR n th
image in the output file.  The process ceases as soon as any input
file reaches its end.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I infile
The background image will be read from this file.
If input is to be taken from
stdin, "\-" must be specified here.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
If specified, output will be written to this file, otherwise it will
go to stdout.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR rlecomp (1),
.IR crop (1),
.IR repos (1),
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
John W. Peterson, University of Utah.
.SH BUGS
.I Rlepatch
uses the "row" interface to the RLE library.  It would run
much faster using the "raw" interface, particularly for placing small
patches over a large image.   Even fixing it to work like
.I rlecomp
(which uses
"raw" mode only for non-overlapping images) would make a major improvement.
