.\" Copyright (c) 1990, University of Michigan
.TH RLEQUANT 1 "June 12, 1990" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rlequant \- variance based color quantization for RLE images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B rlequant
[
.B \-b
.I bits
] [
.B \-c
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-i
.I cubeside
] [
.B \-m
] [
.B \-n
.I colors
] [
.B \-r
.I mapfile
] [
.B \-o
.I outfile
] [
.I infile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program quantizes the colors in an RLE image using a
variance-based method.  See
.IR colorquant (3)
for more details on the method.
.TP
.BI \-b " bits"
The colors in the input image will be "prequantized" to this many bits
before applying the variance-based method.  Two internal tables of
size
.BR "2^(3*" bits ")"
are allocated, so values of
.I bits
greater than 6 are likely to cause thrashing or may prevent the
program from running at all.  The default value of
.I bits
is 5.  It must be less than or equal to 8 and greater than 0.
.TP
.B \-c
Only the color map will be output; the image will not be digitized.
The output file will be a 0x0
.IR RLE
file with a color map, suitable for input to
.IR rleldmap (1),
.IR rledither (1),
or
.IR "rlequant -r" .
.TP
.B \-d
Floyd Steinberg dithering is performed on the output.  This is very helpful
for images being quantized to a small number of colors.
.TP
.B \-f
If this option is specified, a faster approximation will be used.  In
most cases, the error so introduced will be barely noticeable.
.TP
.BI \-i " cubeside"
Initializes the output color map with a "color cube" of size
\fIcubeside\fP^3.  I.e., if \fI-i 2\fP were specified, the 8 corners of the
color cube (black, red, green, blue, yellow, cyan, magenta, white)
would be added to the output colormap.  This reduces the number of
colors available for quantization.  The color cube will be used to
quantize the output image, but will not otherwise affect the choice of
representative colors.
.TP
.B \-m
Computes a single color map suitable for quantizing all the input
images.  This is useful when the quantized images will be used as a
"movie" (e.g., with the
.B \-m
flag of
.IR getx11 (1)).
The input may not come from a pipe when this option is specified,
unless
.B \-c
is also specified.
.TP
.BI \-n " colors"
The output image will be quantized to at most
.I colors
colors.  It might have fewer if the input image has only a few colors
itself.  The default value of
.I colors
is 256 \- \fIcubesize\fP^3 \- \fImapsize\fP.  It must be less than or
equal to 256.  If a color cube (\fB\-c\fP) or an input map (\fB\-r\fP)
is given, \fIcolors\fP may be 0; otherwise it must be greater than 0.
.TP
.BI \-r " mapfile"
The color map from the RLE file \fImapfile\fP will be added to the
output color map.  The number of colors in the input color map,
\fImapsize\fP is calculated as follows: If a \fIcolor_map_length\fP
comment is present in \fImapfile\fP, its value is used.  If not, the
size of the color map (usually 256) is used (the \fIrlehdr\fP(1)
program will display the color map size and the comment, if present).
The input color map will be used to quantize the output image, but
will not otherwise affect the choice of representative colors.  If the
combination \fI-n 0 -r mapfile\fP is specified, then \fIrlequant\fP
will just quantize (and dither, if requested) the input images to the
given colormap.  This is usually faster than using \fIrledither\fP.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
The output will be written to the file
.IR outfile .
If not specified, or if
.I outfile
is "\-", the output will be written to the standard output stream.
.TP
.I infile
This file contains one or more concatenated RLE images.  Each will be
processed in turn.  A separate quantization map will be constructed
for each image.  If not specified, or if
.I infile
is "\-", the image(s) will be read from the standard input stream.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
rlequant file.rle
Quantizes \fIfile.rle\fP to 256 colors using a 5-bit pre-quantization.
If \fIfile.rle\fP has multiple images, each will get its own
(different) colormap.
.TP
rlequant \-m file.rle
Quantizes \fIfile.rle\fP to 256 colors using a 5-bit pre-quantization.
If \fIfile.rle\fP has multiple images, they will all be used to choose
the color map, and will all be quantized to the same color map.
.TP
cat *.rle | rlequant \-m \-c >map.rle ;
	cat *.rle | rlequant \-n 0 \-r map.rle
.br
Computes a single colormap based on all the images in the files
\fI*.rle\fP, then quantizes each image to that color map.  The output
is the stream of quantized images.
.TP
rlequant -i 4 -d file.rle
Compute 192 representative colors for each image in \fIfile.rle\fP,
add a 4x4x4 color cube to the resulting color map, and then quantize
the image to the resulting set of colors with dithering.
.TP
rlequant -b 6 file.rle
Quantize file.rle to 256 colors using a 6-bit prequantization.  This
provides slightly more precision in color matching than does a 5-bit
prequantization.  It also runs significantly slower and requires
approximately 8 times the memory for its intermediate storage.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
.IR mcut (1),
.IR rledither (1),
.IR rlehdr (1),
.IR urt (1),
.IR colorquant (3),
.IR RLE (5).
.ad b
.SH AUTHOR
Spencer W. Thomas
.br
Craig Kolb (Yale University) wrote the color quantization code.
.br
Rod Bogart wrote the dithering code.

