.\" Copyright (c) 1986, University of Utah
.TH RLESETBG 1 "December 20, 1986" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rlesetbg \- Set the background value in the RLE header.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rlesetbg
.\" sample options...
[
.B \-{DO}
] [
.B \-c
.I bgcolor ...
] [
.B \-o
.I outfile
] [
.I infile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR rlesetbg
sets the background color field in the image header of an
.IR RLE (5)
image (none of the actual
pixels are changed).  If
.I infile
isn't specified, the image is read from stdin.

The background color in the header is used to save space in the
run-length encoded file.  Runs of background-colored pixels longer
than 2 pixels are simply not saved.  (Doing this for runs of 1 or 2
background pixels can make the saved image larger than if no encoding
were done.)  Therefore, changing the background color with
.I rlesetbg
may still leave some pixels saved in the original background color.
The \fB\-D\fP option will delete the background color altogether from
the header; this can be useful in certain circumstances, but can also
lead to very strange results.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-D
Delete any background specification that might be present.
.TP
.B \-O
Specifies that the image has no background, it overlays existing images.
.TP
\fB\-c \fIbgcolor ...\fR
Specifies the color values to set the background to.  There should be
at least as many values as there are color channels in the image.  Use
\-\^\- or another option to separate the list of colors from
.IR infile .
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
If specified, the output will be written to this file.  If
.I outfile
is "\-", or if it is not specified, the output will be written to the
standard output stream.
.SH AUTHORS
John W. Peterson and Rod Bogart
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR repos (1),
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH BUGS
This should really be part of a single program that does all header munging...
