.\" Copyright (c) 1990, Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc.
.TH RLETOPPM 1 "July 20, 1990" 1
.SH NAME
rletoppm \- convert a Utah RLE image file into a PBMPLUS/ppm image file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rletoppm
[
.B \-h
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-p
] [
.I infile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program converts Utah
.IR RLE (5)
image files into PBMPLUS full-color (ppm) image files.  Rletoppm will handle
four types of RLE files: Grayscale (8 bit data, no color map), Pseudocolor
(8 bit data with a color map), Truecolor (24 bit data with color map), and
Directcolor (24 bit data, no color map).  Since the orgins for the RLE and
PBMPLUS image file formats are in different locations, this program
automatically "flips" the image when converting.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
This option will cause rletoppm to operate in verbose mode.  Header information
is printed to "stderr".
.TP
.B \-h
This option allows the header of the RLE file to be dumped to "stderr" without
converting the file.  It is equivalent to using the \-v option except that no
file conversion takes place.
.TP
.B \-p
This option will output the ppm data in the "plain" format (P3), instead of the
default "raw bits" format (P6).  The plain format is more readable, but takes
up more space.
.TP
.B infile
The input will be read from this file.  If
.I infile
is "\-" or is not specified, the input will be read from the standard
input stream.
The resulting
PBMPLUS/ppm data will be sent to "stdout".
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
rletoppm \-v lenna.rle >lenna.ppm
While running in verbose mode, convert lenna.rle to PBMPLUS/ppm format and
store resulting data in lenna.ppm.
.TP
rletoppm \-h test.rle
Dump the header information of the RLE file called test.rle.
.TP
rletoppm \-p test.rle >lenna.ppm
Convert lenna.rle to PBMPLUS/ppm plain (P3) format and store in lenna.ppm.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR ppmtorle (1),
.IR pgmtorle (1),
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5)
.SH AUTHOR
.br
Wesley C. Barris
.br
Army High Performance Computing Research Center (AHPCRC)
.br
Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc.
.br
Modifications by Eric Haines to support raw and plain formats.
