.\" Copyright (c) 1986, University of Utah
.TH RLEZOOM 1 "Feb 27, 1987" 1
.UC 4 
.SH NAME
rlezoom \- Magnify an RLE file by pixel replication.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rlezoom
.I factor
[ 
.I y-factor
] [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-o
.I outfile
] [
.I infile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program magnifies (zooms) an
.IR RLE (5)
file by a floating point factor.  Each pixel in the original image becomes
a block of pixels in the output image.  If no
.I y-factor
is specified, then the image will be magnified by
.I factor
equally in both directions.  If 
.I y-factor
is given, then each input pixel becomes a block of
.IR factor \h'\w'i'u'\(mu\h'\w'i'u' y-factor
pixels in the output.  If
.I factor
or
.I y-factor
is less than 1.0, pixels will be dropped from the image.  There is no
pixel blending performed.  Input is taken from 
.IR infile ,
or from the standard input if not specified.  The magnified image is
written to the standard output, or
.I outfile,
if specified.

You should use
.I rlezoom
over
.IR fant (1)
if you just want a quick magnification of an image with the pixel
boundaries showing.  It is significantly faster than 
.I fant
because it does no arithmetic on the pixel values.
If you need blending between pixels in the magnified
image, then 
.I fant
is the correct program to use.  Use
.I "rlezoom \-f factor y-factor"
to produce an image the same size as 
.I "fant \-p 0 0 \-s factor y-factor"
for previewing purposes.

Note: due to the way that 
.IR scanargs (3)
parses the arguments from the command line, if the name of
.I infile
is a number, and it is in the current directory, you should prefix it
with ".\" so that it will not be confused with
.I factor
or
.IR y-factor .
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR fant (1),
.IR urt (1),
.IR scanargs (3),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Spencer W. Thomas,
Gerald A. Winters.
