.\" Copyright (c) 1986, University of Utah
.\" Template man page.  Taken from wtm's page for getcx3d
.TH TARGATORLE 1 "July 12, 1991" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
targatorle \- Convert Truevision TARGA images to RLE format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B targatorle
.\" sample options...
[
.B \-h
.I headerfile
]
[
.B \-n
.I nchannels
]
[
.B \-o
.I outfile.rle
] [
.I infile.tga
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Targatorle
converts a file from Truevision's TARGA format into RLE format.
If no input file is specified, the data is
read from stdin.
.I Targatorle
recognizes (but cannot necessarily process) all of the image subtypes
defined by the 1989 TARGA 2.0 specification:
.PP
.ta 0.65iR 0.70i
	0	\- Header Only, No Image Data
.br
	1	\- Uncompressed, Color-mapped Image
.br
	2	\- Uncompressed, True-color Image
.br
	3	\- Uncompressed, B/W (gray scale) Image
.br
	9	\- Run-length encoded, Color-mapped Image
.br
	10	\- Run-length encoded, True-color Image
.br
	11	\- Run-length encoded, B/W Image
.PP
.I Targatorle
should correctly process images in formats 0, 2, 3, 10, and 11.
No support is currently available for color mapped images.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Allow the program to write TARGA header information to
.I headerfile
.TP
.B \-n
where
.I nchannels
is 3 or 4.
If input is a color image, copy only
.I nchannels
of the TARGA file; this allows the alpha channel to be stripped.  By default,
the alpha channel will be copied if present.
.TP
.B \-o
Use
.I outfile
as output instead of
.I stdout.
.SH LIMITATIONS
The TARGA image descriptor byte is ignored; therefore, the image origin
is assumed to be that of RLE(5) (bottom left).
None of the color-mapped TARGA formats (types 1 and 9) are
supported.
Finally, no attempt has been made to support extensions to the
TARGA File Format introduced by Truevision in 1989 (new support
for time stamps, comments, user\-defined data fields, etc.).
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR urt (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Hann-Bin Chuang
.br
Andrew C. Hadenfeldt, Univ. of Nebraska\-Lincoln (modifications)
