.\" Copyright (c) 1990, University of Michigan
.TH URT 1 "June 17, 1990" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
urt \- overview of the Utah Raster Toolkit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta 11n
\fBapplymap\fR	Apply color map to image data.
.br
\fBavg4\fR	Simple 2x2 downsizing filter.
.br
\fBcrop\fR	Crop image.
.br
\fBcubitorle\fR	Convert Cubicomp format to RLE.
.br
\fBdvirle\fR	Typeset TeX ".dvi" files as RLE images.
.br
\fBfant\fR	Image scale/rotate with anti-aliasing.
.br
\fBget4d\fR	Display on SGI Iris/4D display.
.br
\fBget_orion\fR	Display on "Orion" display.
.br
\fBgetap\fR	Display on Apollo.
.br
\fBgetbob\fR	Display under HP window system.
.br
\fBgetcx3d\fR	Display RLE on Chromatics CX3D.
.br
\fBgetfb\fR	Display using BRL generic fb library.
.br
\fBgetgmr\fR	Display on Grinnell GMR-27 frame buffer.
.br
\fBgetiris\fR	Display on SGI 2400/3000 w/o window manager.
.br
\fBgetmac\fR	Display on Mac under MPW.
.br
\fBgetmex\fR	Display on SGI under the window manager.
.br
\fBgetqcr\fR	Display on Matrix QCR camera.
.br
\fBgetren\fR	Display on HP SRX.
.br
\fBgetsun\fR	Display using SunTools.
.br
\fBgetx10\fR	Display on X10 display.
.br
\fBgetx11\fR	Display using X11.
.br
\fBgiftorle\fR	Convert GIF files to RLE.
.br
\fBgraytorle\fR	Convert separate rrr ggg bbb files to RLE.
.br
\fBmcut\fR	Median cut color quantization.
.br
\fBmergechan\fR	Merge colors from multiple images.
.br
\fBpainttorle\fR	Convert MacPaint to RLE.
.br
\fBpgmtorle\fR	Convert PBMPLUS pgm format to RLE.
.br
\fBppmtorle\fR	Convert PBMPLUS ppm format to RLE.
.br
\fBpyrmask\fR	Generate "pyramid" filter mask.
.br
\fBrastorle\fR	Convert Sun Raster to RLE.
.br
\fBrawtorle\fR	Convert various raw formats to RLE.
.br
\fBread98721\fR	Read the screen of an HP 98721 "Renaissance" to an RLE file.
.br
\fBrepos\fR	Reposition an image.
.br
\fBrlatorle\fR	Convert Wavefront RLA format to RLE.
.br
\fBrleClock\fR	Draws a clock face.
.br
\fBrleaddcom\fR	Add comments to an RLE file.
.br
\fBrleaddeof\fR	Add an EOF code to an RLE file.
.br
\fBrlebg\fR	Generate a "background".
.br
\fBrlebox\fR	Find bounding box of an image.
.br
\fBrlecomp\fR	Image composition.
.br
\fBrledither\fR	Floyd-Steinberg dither an image to a given colormap.
.br
\fBrleflip\fR	Flip an image or rotate it 90.
.br
\fBrlehdr\fR	Print info about an RLE file.
.br
\fBrlehisto\fR	Make a histogram of an image.
.br
\fBrleldmap\fR	Load a new colormap into a file.
.br
\fBrlemandl\fR	Make a Mandelbrot image.
.br
\fBrlenoise\fR	Add noise to an image.
.br
\fBrlepatch\fR	Patch smaller images on a big one.
.br
\fBrleprint\fR	Print all pixel values in image.
.br
\fBrlequant\fR	Variance based color quantization.
.br
\fBrlescale\fR	Generate a "gray scale".
.br
\fBrleselect\fR	Select images from an RLE file.
.br
\fBrlesetbg\fR	Set the background color of an image file.
.br
\fBrleskel\fR	Skeleton tool.  Programming example.
.br
\fBrlespiff\fR	Simple contrast enhancement.
.br
\fBrlesplice\fR	Splice two images horizontally or vertically.
.br
\fBrlesplit\fR	Split concatenated images into files.
.br
\fBrlestereo\fR	Combine two images into a "red-green" stereo pair.
.br
\fBrleswap\fR	Swap or select color channels.
.br
\fBrletoabA60\fR	Convert RLE to Abekas A60 format.
.br
\fBrletoabA62\fR	Convert to Abekas A62 format.
.br
\fBrletoascii\fR	Make a line-printer/CRT version of an RLE image.
.br
\fBrletogif\fR	Convert RLE images to GIF format.
.br
\fBrletogray\fR	Convert RLE to separate rrr ggg bbb files.
.br
\fBrletopaint\fR	Convert RLE to MacPaint.
.br
\fBrletoppm\fR	Convert RLE to PBMPLUS ppm format.
.br
\fBrletops\fR	Convert RLE to (B&W) PostScript.
.br
\fBrletorast\fR	Convert RLE to Sun Raster.
.br
\fBrletoraw\fR	Convert RLE to rgbrgb raw format.
.br
\fBrletorla\fR	Convert RLE to Wavefront RLA format.
.br
\fBrletotiff\fR	Convert RLE to TIFF 24 bit format.
.br
\fBrlezoom\fR	Scale image by sub- or super-sampling.
.br
\fBsmush\fR	Generic filtering.
.br
\fBtargatorle\fR	Convert TARGA to RLE.
.br
\fBtifftorle\fR	Convert TIFF 24 bit images to RLE.
.br
\fBto8\fR	24 to 8 bit ordered dither color conversion.
.br
\fBtobw\fR	Color\(->B&W conversion.
.br
\fBunexp\fR	Convert "exp" format to normal colors.
.br
\fBunslice\fR	Paste together "slices" into a full image.
.br
\fBwasatchrle\fR	Convert Wasatch paint system to RLE.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Utah Raster Toolkit
is a collection of programs and C routines for
dealing with raster images commonly encountered in computer graphics.
A device and system independent image format stores images
and information about them.  Called the
.IR RLE (5)
format, it uses
run length encoding to reduce storage space for most images.

The programs (tools) currently included in the toolkit are listed above,
together with a short description of each one.  Most of the tools read
one or more input RLE files and produce an output RLE file.  Some
generate RLE files from other information, and some read RLE files and
produce output of a different form.

An input file is almost always specified by mentioning its name on the
command line.  Some commands, usually those which take an indefinite
number of non-file arguments (e.g.,
.IR rleaddcom )
require a
.B \-i
flag to introduce the input file name.
If the input file name is absent the tool will usually
read from the standard input.  An input file name of "\-" also signals
that the input should be taken from the standard input.

On Unix
systems, there are two other specially treated file name forms.  A
file name starting with the character '|' will be passed to
.IR sh (1)
to run as a command.  The output from the command will be read by the
tool.  A file whose name ends in ".Z" (and which does not begin with
a '|') will be decompressed by the
.IR compress (1)
program.  Both of these options supply input to the tool through a
pipe.  Consequently, certain programs (those that must read their
input twice) cannot take advantage of these features.  This is noted
in the manual pages for the affected commands.

An output file is almost always specified using the option
.B \-o
.IR outfile .
If the option is missing, or if
.I outfile
is "\-", then the output will be written to the standard output.

On Unix systems, the special file name forms above may also be used
for output files.  File names starting with '|' are taken as a command
to which the tool output will be sent.  If the file name ends in ".Z",
then
.I compress
will be used to produce a compressed output file.

Several images may be concatenated together into a single file, and
most of the tools will properly process all the images.  Those that
will not are noted in their respective man pages.

.B Picture comments.
Images stored in \fIRLE\fP form may have attached comments.  There are
some comments that are interpreted, created or manipulated by certain
of the tools.  In the list below, a word enclosed in <> is a
place-holder for a value.  The <> do not appear in the actual comment.
.TP
\fIimage_gamma=<float number>\fP
Images are sometimes computed with a particular ``gamma'' value --
that is, the pixel values in the image are related to the actual
intensity by a power law, \fIpixel_value=intensity^image_gamma\fP.
Some of the display programs, and the \fIbuildmap\fP(3) function will
look for this comment and automatically build a "compensation table"
to transform the pixel values back to true intensity values.
.TP
\fIdisplay_gamma=<float number>\fP
The \fIdisplay_gamma\fP is just \fI1/image_gamma\fP.  That is, it is
the ``gamma'' of the display for which the image was computed.  If an
\fIimage_gamma\fP comment is not present, but a \fIdisplay_gamma\fP
is, the displayed image will be gamma corrected as above.  The
\fIto8\fP program produces a \fIdisplay_gamma\fP comment.
.TP
\fIcolormap_length=<integer>\fP
The length of the colormap stored in the \fIRLE\fP header must be a
power of two.  However, the number of useful entries in the colormap
may be smaller than this.  This comment can be used to tell some
of the display programs (\fIgetx11\fP, in particular) how many of
the colormap entries are used.  The assumption is that entries 0 \-
\fIcolormap_length\-1\fP are used.  This comment is produced by
\fImcut\fP, \fIrlequant\fP, and \fIrledither\fP.
.TP
\fIimage_title=<string>\fP
This comment is used by \fIgetx11\fP to set the window title.  If
present, the comment is used instead of the file name.  (No other
programs currently pay attention to this comment.)  The comments
\fIIMAGE_TITLE\fP, \fItitle\fP, and \fITITLE\fP are also recognized,
in that order.  No programs produce this comment.
.TP
\fIHISTORY=<string>\fP
All toolkit programs (with the exception of rleaddcom) create or add
to a \fIHISTORY\fP comment.  Each tool appends a line to this comment
that contains its command line arguments and the time it was run.
Thus, the image contains a history of all the things that were done to
it.  No programs interpret this comment.
.TP
\fIexponential_data\fP
This comment should be present in a file stored in ``exponential''
form.  See \fIunexp\fP(1) and \fIfloat_to_exp\fP(3) for more
information.  The \fIunexp\fP program expects to see this comment.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR compress (1),
.IR sh (1),
.IR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Many people contributed to the Utah Raster Toolkit.  This manual page
was written by Spencer W. Thomas, University of Michigan.

