For problems or questions about MBE PMI CAD Models contact Robert Lipman
(robert.lipman@nist.gov)

This software was developed at the National Institute of Standards and
Technology by employees of the Federal Government in the course of their
official duties. Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code
these files are not subject to copyright protection and are in the public
domain. These files are an experimental system. NIST assumes no responsibility
whatsoever for their use by other parties, and makes no guarantees, expressed
or implied, about their quality, reliability, or any other characteristic.

The test cases are not intended to represent best practice in how to apply GD&T
to a part.  Simpler GD&T strategies could have been used. The test cases are
intended to exercise valid presentations of GD&T defined in the ASME Y14
standards.

The test cases, CAD models, and STEP files can be used without any
restrictions.  Their use in other software or hardware products does not imply
a recommendation or endorsement of those products by NIST.

The verification and validation testing results related to the test case PMI
were generated based on older versions of the CAD systems.  Issues identified
for the semantic and graphic representation of PMI in each CAD system may have
been (and hopefully have been) resolved since the original testing took place.

We would appreciate acknowledgement if any of the test cases, CAD models, STEP
files, or screenshots of the models are used, however, the use of the NIST logo
is not allowed.

NIST Software license:

This software was developed by employees of the National Institute of Standards
and Technology (NIST), an agency of the Federal Government and is being made
available as a public service. Pursuant to title 17 United States Code Section
105, works of NIST employees are not subject to copyright protection in the
United States.  This software may be subject to foreign copyright.  Permission
in the United States and in foreign countries, to the extent that NIST may hold
copyright, to use, copy, modify, create derivative works, and distribute this
software and its documentation without fee is hereby granted on a non-exclusive
basis, provided that this notice and disclaimer of warranty appears in all
copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS' WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTY
THAT THE SOFTWARE WILL CONFORM TO SPECIFICATIONS, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND FREEDOM FROM
INFRINGEMENT, AND ANY WARRANTY THAT THE DOCUMENTATION WILL CONFORM TO THE
SOFTWARE, OR ANY WARRANTY THAT THE SOFTWARE WILL BE ERROR FREE.  IN NO EVENT
SHALL NIST BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, DIRECT,
INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, ARISING OUT OF, RESULTING FROM, OR
IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH THIS SOFTWARE, WHETHER OR NOT BASED UPON WARRANTY,
CONTRACT, TORT, OR OTHERWISE, WHETHER OR NOT INJURY WAS SUSTAINED BY PERSONS OR
PROPERTY OR OTHERWISE, AND WHETHER OR NOT LOSS WAS SUSTAINED FROM, OR AROSE OUT
OF THE RESULTS OF, OR USE OF, THE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES PROVIDED HEREUNDER.

file:/db/nist/NIST_MBE_PMI_1.stp
file:/db/nist/NIST_MBE_PMI_11.stp
file:/db/nist/NIST_MBE_PMI_2.stp
file:/db/nist/NIST_MBE_PMI_3.stp
file:/db/nist/NIST_MBE_PMI_4.stp
file:/db/nist/NIST_MBE_PMI_5.stp
file:/db/nist/NIST_MBE_PMI_6.stp
file:/db/nist/NIST_MBE_PMI_7-10.3dm
file:/db/nist/pdf/1.pdf
file:/db/nist/pdf/10.pdf
file:/db/nist/pdf/11.pdf
file:/db/nist/pdf/2.pdf
file:/db/nist/pdf/3.pdf
file:/db/nist/pdf/4.pdf
file:/db/nist/pdf/5.pdf
file:/db/nist/pdf/6.pdf
file:/db/nist/pdf/7-10_assem.pdf
file:/db/nist/pdf/7.pdf
file:/db/nist/pdf/8.pdf
file:/db/nist/pdf/9.pdf

