https://github.com/mkazhdan/PoissonRecon

Copyright (c) 2015 mkazhdan

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
IN THE SOFTWARE.

Copyright (c) 2006, Michael Kazhdan and Matthew Bolitho
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer. Redistributions in binary
form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
provided with the distribution.

Neither the name of the Johns Hopkins University nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES  OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE  GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


Uses PlyVertexMini.h from geogram:
https://github.com/alicevision/geogram/blob/master/src/lib/geogram/third_party/PoissonRecon/PlyVertexMini.h

Geogram is licensed under the 3-clauses BSD License (also called "Revised
BSD License", "New BSD License", or "Modified BSD License"):

Copyright (c) 2012-2014, Bruno Levy All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer. Redistributions in binary
form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
provided with the distribution. Neither the name of the ALICE Project-Team
nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

If you modify this software, you should include a notice giving the name of
the person performing the modification, the date of modification, and the
reason for such modification.

file:/include/bg/spsr.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Allocator.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Array.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Array.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/BSplineData.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/BSplineData.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/BinaryNode.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/CmdLineParser.cpp
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/CmdLineParser.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/CmdLineParser.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Factor.cpp
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Factor.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/FunctionData.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/FunctionData.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Geometry.cpp
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Geometry.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Geometry.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Hash.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/MAT.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/MAT.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/MarchingCubes.cpp
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/MarchingCubes.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/MemoryUsage.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/MultiGridOctreeData.IsoSurface.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/MultiGridOctreeData.SortedTreeNodes.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/MultiGridOctreeData.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/MultiGridOctreeData.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/MyTime.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Octree.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Octree.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/PPolynomial.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/PPolynomial.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/PlyVertexMini.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/PointStream.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/PointStream.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/PoissonRecon.cpp
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Polynomial.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Polynomial.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/SPSR.cpp
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/SPSR.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/SparseMatrix.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/SparseMatrix.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/SurfaceTrimmer.cpp
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Vector.h
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/Vector.inl
file:/src/other/libspsr/Src/cvertex.h

